you know I didn't know that I have this
issue called kinesthetic reinforcement
that when I take notes instead of
strengthening the pathway in the mind
it's so difficult for me to write that
it erases whatever notes I'm taking so I
wiped out the fancy private school
education by taking the notes that were
illegible and I didn't remember what was
going on in class and I only found this
out when I was in graduate school at
Harvard by the most precarious
circumstances possible my view is is
that my PhD belongs to every
learning-disabled family in the country
because so so far as I'm concerned the
difficulty of getting through the system
and surviving it is is that you're
constantly causing a problem for every
educator and so I am compassionate with
the problem right up to a particular
point and that is the point where you
say you know what I don't have time for
this [__] and I'm sorry but you're
getting a C and I some something in me
knows that I'm doing you wrong but I'm
not allowed to do you right I can't
figure out why I'm allowed to give you
an A in this class because you turned in
some other project that I was not
expecting because you showed brilliance
you showed something else and somehow
because of my needs for my job I have to
give you and your family the bad news
that you're taking it for the team and
so my righteous indignation is intended
to start a blaze if there was one thing
I would love to do is to liberate the
families that are going through this
nightmare of looking at their kids and
saying wow you're really just you're not
getting it don't worry there'll be
something in life for you like why are
you giving up on your kids if those kids
are smart like this race and IQ thing I
cannot stand this race and like you
think I understand the idea that IQ is
somewhat predictive I understand that
you can correlate it with various things
iq is such a crude measure of all of the
things that we really deeply care
about and I can't help you know my
friend Nassim Taleb is brutal on this
topic he is not a nice person when it
comes to this issue but my energy is
with him how many people are we gonna
throw in the dummy pile you know I think
about Louis Armstrong a lot and I think
about Louis Armstrong and the fact that
we white Americans remember him as a
novelty singer like and that's not what
he is he is that he is the singular
genius who wrote our national classical
music and he invented it for my money
modern jazz as we understand it more or
less single-handedly is an orphan out of
New Orleans now we can't acknowledge his
genius we can't acknowledge that this is
an actual straight-up American genius
like none other
I mean like me I don't know maybe Art
Tatum in Charlie Parker and a tiny
number of people who are just completely
out there but we are so wrapped up in
this nonsense about what makes a good
student and what makes a first-class
mind we don't see like let me just give
the simplest one that I give a lot
people call me colorblind and I say oh
do you feel bad because your contrast
blonde and they say what I said well I
don't think you see contrast as well so
if we ever need to depend on camouflage
and spotting the enemy you're gonna
really need me around that's why my
trait is retained in the gene pool and I
understand that color is something that
gives you an advantage a lot of the time
but don't think that we couldn't have
driven my colorblindness out of the
system if it didn't confer an advantage
and you don't have that advantage and
you don't even know that you don't have
that advantage well the same thing is
true for most learning disabilities the
learning disability portion of the gift
is the price paid and you're not letting
me use the other part like I understand
that a Bugatti is pretty noisy and at
guzzles gas but it does go rather fast
if you know how to drive it and you're
telling me that I have to drive it in a
school zone for 25 miles an hour and
that it has to be under a certain
decibel level and that it can't guzzle
gas
because it's too expensive and bad for
the environment screw you
I want those learning disabled kids
racing around the track at 300 miles an
hour and now you try to catch them this
is a this is an epidemic
mischaracterization of a giant portion
of the population from whom you will get
vaccines and new industries these are
the people who will write your scripts
that you'll be riveted must see TV from
the future and right now what you're
telling them is that they're a bunch of
morons so yeah there's a little bit of
righteous indignation oh man I love it I
think that I mean it's interesting so
not having lived through that not having
had that as my challenge is something
that I will say that I've just never
really thought a lot about the way that
people learn differently but you hear
stories like you making it all the way
to Harvard getting a degree in
mathematics and yet also being learning
disabled you hear people talk about how
Einstein when he was young people
supposedly told him that he wasn't that
bright and you know you you hear enough
stories like that and you started to
think okay maybe there are some people
that are just so far outside of the box
your Bugatti analogy I think is is
really spot-on it's uh yeah it was a
great thing about it is that all those
learning disabled kids really appreciate
their keep their straight a friends
because that you know you guys helped us
out of our jams you let us crib notes
you very often got us through school and
don't look at me I was a kid cheating
all right like a fiend all right
but what I'm trying to get at is I don't
see the learning disabled students
wanting to extinguish neurotypical I see
the neurotypical neurotypicals freaked
out of their minds that the kid who they
think should be you know in the dummy
pile might have some super talents and
you think about a lot of the energy in
Silicon Valley a friend of mine said
something which I thought was very wise
and she said if only we could harness
the energy of the billionaires who
aren't still trying to prove to their
middle school cafeteria table that they
belong with the
that's pretty good you know it's
interesting and I think I heard you talk
about this once before what this needs
is it needs a word like if people had a
word you hear learning-disabled and you
think I mean to be harsh you think that
they're low IQ you think that they're
not bright that they're going to
struggle their whole lives and you
definitely hear I've had a few of them
on the show who've been like yo I was in
the short bus classes and and you know
my wife struggled a little bit with that
and people didn't think she was very
bright but this chick is just a she's
whip it smart and B she is ungodly
talented from an arts standpoint just
ridiculous but always got made fun of
because she was a little bit dyslexic
and just so it was like a real struggle
for her it needs a name it needs a name
where it's like cuz cuz what part of
what people are struggling with is they
don't know how to think of it they don't
know what to do with it the system isn't
wired for it they're [__] swamped
they've got a kid at home who's you know
getting in trouble and trying drugs for
the first time we're having sex yeah
[__] I don't know what to do with this
kid like he's he's [__] Bugattis
making all the noise he's turning in the
crumpled paper which seems like
Wolfowitz wrong with mute we watch
serious as a comic I'm that's what I'm
trying to [__] rap that's what I'm
trying to get at our entire culture
already knows this do you want to hang
with the x-men or do you want to hang
with the muggles you know I mean it
doesn't matter it's the same story over
and over again mix and match and I did
there's some notion right that the
mutants are cool because we all
recognize our own mutations I love
giving the example of Elizabeth Taylor
with her two rows of eyelashes because
she was a mutant she had two rows well
yeah she was pretty hot interesting
right and the mutation helped make her
hot so once you start to understand like
you know I joke with everybody that the
motto of my family is you can have my
learning disabilities when you pry them
from my cold dead fingers because I want
to make that cool you already have a
word it's like you it's like queer as an
epithet yeah okay I'll take that and you
want to say I'm low IQ okay what is it
gonna feel like to get beat by somebody
as low IQ do you sure you want to choose
that do you really want to put
processing as one of the four categories
of inputs to an intelligence quotient
your call I mean I think that the point
is we have to turn this into a really
fun bloodsport you had me at blood sport
yeah you see because what we need is we
need people when I asked you know
there's a version of this that also
works for women there's a version of
this that works for African Americans
because there are different thought
processes that have huge advantages and
what I believe is that we can lie about
us all being the same or we can
recognize that our gifts lie in
different places and I don't know of I
mean the gene pool seems to retain a lot
of things that people claim our errors
I'm pretty sure that those things would
be driven to frequency zero if that's
what they were